Muniru Lamin
COSC 320 Lab-5
03/13/19


Readme:
This program is made to test out priority queues using heap sort function. In This program I have 2 files: my main.cpp and my heap.h. in my main.cpp file this is where all the user interface materials are implemented. I create an object heap so that my main have access to the methods of my heap.h files. I give user a menu option which goes through giving the user different options of what they could do. which includes inserting, deleting, displaying top priority, and displaying the entire array in a tree form where the highest is at the top. In my heap.h file, I have a Heapobj struct where i declare the name and priority coming into the tree. I also have a HeapQ class which creates an array of Heapobj to store the name and priority of the person. I also have other function that add, remove display, and return the top person in the array.


Questions:

a)
Once a again I appoach this problem by thoroughly reading and understanding what my proffessor wanted me to do. After reading I started with my main by making my menu options and asking user for the name and priority of the person. Once I impplemented that I worked  of my heap fuctions. I first implemented my insert function and made sure that worked and asked user if they would like to delete, then implemented that function. I use this step of coding just so I dont have errors in different functions at the same time.



b)
The theorectical time complexity for my algorithms are similar in most of my functions: for my insert the run time is log(n) only because increaseKey is being called.
increase key is also log(n), and ExtractMax is log(n) because of maxheapify being called.



c)





d)
A large application where priority queue will be helpful at the Hospital in an emergency room where the people with the most serverity has first priority.



e)I can make my program better by adding more validation cases so that the user doesnt input something that will terminate the program. also i can give the user more idea on what my program does so they understand fully. There is probably another way I could give user option in lesser lines of codes so everything isn't in the main, That will also be a good clean up. I can also comment more in my code so that if read by someone else they can understand what is happening 
